Hello and welcome to another lab, in this lab
I'm going to show you how to implement a certain use case where we want to have an application load
balancer that's Internet facing but we want to have our instances in private subnets so up until now
when we've had an internet facing load balancer and our instances have been in public subnets.
And you'll remember that when you create an application load balancer that's Internet facing it actually
creates nodes within each of your Availability Zones that are sitting in your subnet and using your
IP addresses from your subnet.
So what we need to do in order to be able to connect to instances in a private subnet is actually configure
the application load balancer with the public subnets.
So you don't configure the private subnets with the application load balancer that you configure the
public subnets but those public subnets must be in the same availability zone as the targets.
So your public and private subnets must be in the same availability zone as your targets.
So it's quite easy to setup.
But what we're also going to do in this lab is firstly we're going to install a NAT gateway because
we're going to run our user data code to install Apache and run some configuration so it's going to need
to access the Internet.
So we need a NAT gateway for our private instances to be able to access the outside world via the Internet
gateway.
The other thing I want to do is set up the security groups better.
Up until now we've just been using the web access security group but that's definitely not a security
best practice.
What I want to do is set up this configuration so what we have is for our application load balancer
we're going to have a security group called PublicALB and this is going to apply to our Internet
facing ALB. The inbound protocol port will allow port 80 from any source but for the outbound traffic
is restricted to the security group called PrivateEC2. PrivateEC2
Is the security group that applies to all web front end.
This is all web servers sitting in the private subnet.
PrivateEC2 only has a single inbound rule and that allows port 80 from the public ALB.
So what we're doing is we're restricting access so that the Internet facing ALB can receive port 80
from anywhere but it can only send to this security group or members of this security group.
And this security group privateEC2 is only allowing inbound traffic from the application load
balancer.
So this is a much more secure configuration and we'll see how this works in a multi tier application
in the next lab.
So that's what we're going to do.
Let's head into the console and start building this out. Just before we get started in the console.
I wanted to bring this article to your attention and the link as always will be in the course download.
So this explains a bit more about how you connect public facing loan balances to easy two instances
in private subnets.
In other words ones that have private IP addresses that don't have public IP addresses.
So let's get started.
I'm going to go over to the VPC management console and I actually don't have any subnets in my default
VPC these ones here are all created from another part of the course.
So I want to do things in order.
So let's create a couple of private subnets.
I'm going to call the first one private to a and I'm going to put that in my default VPC and put it
in ap-southeast-2a and for the CIDR block I'm going to do 1
172.31.48.0/20 and then going to create private2B
And this one's also going to be the default VPC.
It's gonna go in 2b and I'm going to make this 172.31.64.0/20.
We can now create a route table for the subnets.
We're just gonna call this route RT1 and it's going to go my default VPC and I'm going to associate
that with the two subnets that I just set up.
So that's gonna be these guys private2A and private2B and what I would now want to do is go into
that route table edit route some I'm going to add a route to a wildcard destination and I'm going to
put in the NAT gateway and there's one at Gateway.
So that's it.
I've created a couple of private subnets in two different Availability Zones.
I've created a route table associated the subnets to the Route Table and I've created a rule that says
that for all traffic that's not within the VPC CIDR block send it to the NAT Gateway and then
that Gateway has been created in a public subnet within the same VPC.
So it has an elastic IP address and it's able to then route traffic to the outside world.
So that's that bit set up the next thing to do is to go and create an auto scaling group with a series
of instances in our private subnet.
The next thing we need to do before we set up our auto scaling group or a load balancer is just set
up our security groups.
So we've got these two security group configurations and we just need to create these ahead of time.
So let's head to the console and go to security groups and let's create our security groups.
So the first one is going to be called public ALB and that's going to go in the default VPC.
And I just need to copy that name into the description as well.
And then I'm going to create one more security group and this is going to be private EC2 what I
can do now.
Now that I've got these two security groups set up I can actually create the rules so for the public ALB
...
I'm going to create an inbound rule that allows HTTP from anywhere and I'm going to say rule for
the outbound rules I'm going to remove this rule and I'm going to add a rule that allows HTTP.
and this time I'm going to specify the security group.
And it's gonna be the privateEC2 security group
and then go and go to the privateEC2 security group and it's gonna have a rule that allows HTTP.
from the publicALB.
and that's all the rules set up.
So now we can go to EC2 and the first thing we need to do there is create our auto scaling group
so let's create an auto scaling group choose Amazon Linux 2 AMI, T2 micro I'm gonna call it LC1 change
to S3 full access and then I'm going to paste in and then I'm gonna paste in the same user data that
we've been using in many labs in this section. Then I'm going to click next go to security groups and
now can select a security group.
In this case it's gonna be the privateEC2 because this is for EC2 instances in the private
subnet and they're going to allow port 80 inbound.
Now it's warning me that we don't have port 22 open so we won't be able to connect into it.
That's okay we don't need to manage this instance and then click Create choose my key pair.
And now a create my auto scaling group so we can say we can have four instances and these are going
to go into the private subnets that we just created so that's private2A and private2B and we have
a warning that we won't get a public IP.
That's exactly what we expect.
Let's go forwards.
We can keep it at initial size.
Go to review create auto scaling group.
So the next thing we need to do is create our load balancer.
So I'm gonna create an application load balancer gonna call it myalb this time it's going to be Internet
facing.
But remember we need to connect the public subnets not the private subnets.
So it's going to listen on HTTP.
I'm going to connect to ap-southeast-2A and 2B and within here we can now see that we have two subnets
but we don't want to connect to the private segment.
We need to use the public subnet can then go to security groups and we're going to choose our public
ALB and create a target group.
One.
And again we're just going to go down change the healthy threshold to 2.
And now we're going to go straight past here because we're going to add auto scaling group so we've
got the load balancer.
It's provisioning.
Let's go to auto scaling.
We're going to click edit and we're gonna choose the target group and that's going to connect our light
balance to our auto scaling group and register our instances.
So let's just go back to low balances now in fact let's go to target groups targets and we just need
to keep an eye until our initial status changes to healthy.
So it's been a few minutes and the application load balancer is showing us active.
So let's take the DNS name and I can open a new tab and I'm going to connect.
And there we go we've got Bella and let's see if we cycle we've got Janessa and Dolly and Raina.
So we've definitely got our low balance working.
Instances are in a private subnet .
We've used a NAT gateway in order to download a patch and configure these instances as well as of course
connections as free to pull some files down and we've configured our application load balance.
So we have public subnets and it's using those or it's using the nodes it's deployed into those public
subnets to connect to our instances in the private subnets.
So that's the architecture for using public Internet facing application load balancers with instances
with private IP addresses in private subnets.
And just to recap on security groups what we've done is we've created these two security groups we've
put our back-end instances into the private EC2 security group.
We've created a public ALB security group and we've put our load balancer in it.
And then we've locked down the rules so that the load balancer can only send traffic to the EC2
instances.
And the EC2 instances can only receive traffic on port 80 from the ALB.
So that's a nice secure configuration.
Our security groups are locked down in our instances or in private subnets.
So we've had a lot of fun with that lab guys.
We can now go back and take everything down.
So I just show you how to clean up let's go and delete our load balancer we can remove our target group
we can go to auto scaling and delete our auto scaling group and our launch configuration
we can then go to instances and we can delete these instances or terminate these instances and then
don't forget now to go over to VPC and what we want to do is go to Nat gateways and we want to delete
on that guy where you do pay for these.
And once you deleted it you're going to pay for the elastic IP address because it won't be used.
So what you got to do is just wait for that to be deleted and then you should be able to go and release
your elastic IP so that's it for this lab guys in the next lesson.
I'm actually going to talk you through a multi tier architecture and how we would apply security groups
with a two tier application architecture.